---
title: "REAMDE"
date: 2022-09-03
draft: false
---

Neal Stephenson  
DID NOT FINISH

The score of "DID NOT FINISH" is reserved for books so incredibly offensive that completing them is a net negative on time investment. Rarely is it possible to have your intelligence _reduced_ by reading, although certain books make the possibility clear. I made it to page 139 out of 1044 (13.3%).

In _REAMDE_, Stephenson falls into, in my opinion, the most basic mistake a writer, especially of science fiction, can make: insisting on an incredibly detailed world and then getting those details wrong. By far the better authorial choice would be to follow Asimov or Gibson's examples by zooming out when describing scenes from the imagination:

> "as far as my "vision" in 1981 went, I'd not yet seen a computer keyboard in person, so my sense of what a "deck" looked like was extremely low-resolution. Really BIG pixels of visual imagination." -- William Gibson

_REAMDE_ consistently violates this principle, to it's own demise.

There are not a great many areas where I can claim true expertise, rather than just the armchair variety. However, with a degree in Computer Science and over 10 years in industry as a software engineer, computer software is indeed one of them. I'm therefore qualified to debunk the following quote:

> Richard's machine must be infected with REAMDE; but he wouldn't know or care since he was protected by corporate IT.

In the professional software world, Corporate IT _absolutely_ cares if your computer is infected with ransomware. And then they don't just leave it there because there's also some kind of "protection" in place. Viruses are just files like any other computer code. Possibly hard to find, buried in obscure directories, copied in multiple locations, or write-protected, but still just files. And files can be deleted. Once detected, Corporate IT most definitely deletes viruses in order to protect both individual machines and their network as a whole.

In another passage, World of Warcraft is described as if by someone who has never played it, to someone who has never played a video game. There are at least several other examples of over-detailing in the first 139 pages, but they are infuriating and I just can't be bothered to revisit them.

The areas chosen for the detail treatment are painfully obvious: software, geology, firearms, linguistics. Although I'm an expert in only one of those subjects where _REAMDE_ gets it wrong, I'd be incredibly interested in a parallel expert's take on their domain's details.

Getting into details and then getting those details wrong is an unforgivable mistake as an author, because both are choices that you made on purpose. You chose, or created the need, to position yourself as an expert. And then you failed to do enough research to actually become that self-annointed expert. Once a critical mass of details are ruined, it's impossible to continue suspending disbelief enough to enjoy the rest of the book.

(Postscript: _A Game of Thrones_ years ago received the rare DID NOT FINISH score not just because it was slow, meandering without plot, and boring, but also due to a description of a trebuchet as having a wound spring and arm that hits a cross-brace at launch.)
