---
title: "Rabbits"
date: 2024-11-08
draft: false
---

Terry Miles

&#9733; &#9734; &#9734; &#9734; &#9734;

Apparently, I'm a total sucker for VR puzzles and mysteries that spill over into the real world. _Rabbits_ captures the imagination in the same way as the beginnings of _Ready Player One_. This concept of a puzzle that starts online but escapes through the imagination of its players into real life is just mesmerizing. Dan Brown's thrillers _The DaVinci Code_ and _Digital Fortress_ are fun for the same feel.

See: Cicada 3301, Project Skydrop

_Rabbits_ kindly estabilshes itself as a work of fiction early on, by describing the hot popular girls (who the progatonist totally and definitely actually kissed once) browsing Usenet forums.

Unfortunately, almost none of the book contains any puzzles to be solved, quick thinking, or connecting the dots to go on an adventure. Instead, the middle 70% is just waffling about wether or not the protagonist should continue "playing" Rabbits, the fictional game. It's never really defined what "playing Rabbits" consists of, besides the fact that someone wins at the end of every game. For an entire novel to be based around something, this weird avoidance of defining the singular central theme pretty much ruins the book. Some people are playing, some people quit playing because it's too dangerous, but what exactly a player and non-player are doing differently in their day-to-day lives is never discussed.

The majority of the book is also in violation of the "Don't sit around and wait for things to happen to you" principle. The protagonist starts and stops playing frequently, but in either case waits around for friends and acquaintances to come to him with new clues and ideas. Only at the end of the book does he find an unnatural trail of rocket and space themed clues that he chooses to follow and advance the storyline. This is disappointingly pretty much the singular fast-paced puzzle-solving scene of the whole book.

At other times, "K", the protagonist, gets a new clue, and while his friend immediately starts using it to investigate, K asks "What do you think you're doing?". I don't know K, maybe actually advancing the plot? Yet again, hot on the trail of some clues, K decides that it's better to go home and walk his neighbor's dog rather than follow up on more clues.

Good stories are built around good heroes. For a hero to be "good" in the story sense, they should be inherently special, or apply their strength or smarts in a special way, but if they try to both _be_ and _act_ special, they become too powerful and defeating the antagonist is too easy. It must be possible and believable that the hero could actually lose, in order for their triumph to be fun and meaningful. It turns out that K has extra midiclorians or whatever so that he was born special, and he is super smart and successful, with a side of independently wealthy thrown in for no reason either. This discovery of specialness comes towards the end of the book when things need resolving. Earlier, though never shown or told to be any kind of book entheusiest or reader, K successfully decodes a dying man's last words to lead him to an intensely obscure old book that has nothing to do with anything else.

There's a few straight factual errors too, in a single page K's friend Chloe is described as pulling a gun from the waistband of her pants, and then holstering it back in her skirt. Either this is some very clever (but done nowhere else) description of the world breaking down around them, or it's just a mistake. The bigger problem is the "Missives from Hazel", a previous Rabbits winner, that start most chapters. These are reportedly "authenticated by blockchain", but _that's now that a blockchain does_. A blockchain proves that old data has not been modified, because later links in the chain would point to _different_ old data. For authentication, we have tools like TLS/SSL and PGP. Mentioning blockchain at all here is shown to be a dumb popularity grab.

In the end, K does in fact "win" Rabbits, but it's never told or shown how, why, or any other actual details of what goes on inside the game of Rabbits, which is both infuriating and poor writing.
