---
title: "Be Useful - Seven Tools for Life"
date: 2025-10-25
draft: false
---

Arnold Schwarzenegger

&#9733; &#9733; &#9733; &#9733; &#9733;

This book is great because it's both deep but plainly written. I have found that the most true ideas are the only ones that can stand up to such pressure.

When Arnold takes responsibility for mistakes, he does it straight up. No but-this-or-that or the-other-thing excuses. Just a man trying his best, acknowledging when he falls short, and trying to improve. I have incredible respect for that approach.

Instead of a modern "acknowledgements" section with a bland list of names, I really enjoyed the Aurelian approach of thanking people for what they have taught you. Arnold mentions Stoic philosophy several times, but more importantly, the whole book details how he leads a successful life with a Stoic foundation.

The 7 Rules themselves are worth summarizing:

1. Have a clear vision. Visualize in the mirror. Which means use real data, not hopes and dreams.
2. Never think small. Small doesn't get the meaningful or difficult things done. Instead, make [Everything a Moonshot]({{< ref "2024-4-2-Everything-a-Moonshot.md" >}})
3. Work your ass off. There's no substitute for hard work and practice. A little luck now and then is only helpful if you've worked hard enough to be able to capitalize on it when it comes. One of the most badass scenes in cinema history is the Terminator riding a motorcycle through the Los Angeles aqueduct, spin-cocking a shotgun as he shoots _left handed_ to defend John Connor. Guess what - Arnold had to **practice** that move thousands of times before it could become iconic.
4. Sell Sell Sell. Tell your own story the way you want. You can only do that much with true authenticity. Don't try to tell somebody else's story, and don't let anyone else tell yours. Know your audience.
5. Shift gears. Be ready and adaptable to change. Changing gears will let you take advantage of the greatest number of different situations.
6. Shut your mouth, open your mind. If you make the mistake of thinking you're the smartest person in the room, you lose the ability to learn, and when you stop learning you can never improve yourself.
7. Break your mirrors. Stop looking at yourself and help others. The cool thing is that this still helps yourself.

One of the reasons I started book reviews was to save my favorite points and quotes from books. This book has at least several:

> What about time for rest and relaxation? First of all, rest is for babies and relaxation is for retired people. Which one are you?

> Eat a little quicker, hit the brakes on your commute a little less, and sleep a littel faster and you'll have found the hourse you need. So don't tell me you don't have time to train, or to study, or to write, or to network, or to do whatever you need to do to achieve your vision. Turn your TV off. Throw your machines [phones] out the window. Save your excuses for someone who case. Get to work.

On the idea that only perfect practice makes perfect:

> The key is, they have to be good reps. Not lazy, distracted, arched-back, noodle-arm bullshit reps. You have to use proper form. You have to complete the entire exercise. You have to give maximum effort.
> ...
> The whole point to doing lots of reps is to give you a base that makes you stronger and more resiliant to silly, unfortunate mistakes, whatever that means for you. The goal is to increase the load you're able to handle so that when it's time to do the work that matters - the stuff that people see and remember - you don't have to think about whether you can do it. You just do it.

On why **being useful** is such a cure:

> There are groups out there - entire institutions and industries, if we're being honest about it - that are taking advanteage of people's misery and selling them nonsene, making them angrier, feeding them lies, and inflaming their grievances. All for profit and political gain. These forces are incentivized to keep people miserable and helpless, and to obscure how simple it should be for them to engage with the tools of usefulness and self-sufficiency that are the primary weapons in the fight against unhappiness and apathy.
