---
title: "Solaris"
date: 2025-08-28
draft: false
---

Stanislaw Lem

&#9733; &#9733; &#9734; &#9734; &#9734;

The best that can be said for this book is that it distinctly crosses the line between sci-fi and horror. It's more of an exploration of one man's mental fears as of the novel planet it takes place on.

That planet provides both the setting and antagonist, but neither is really done in a complete way. Not until the last few pages does the protagonist venture outside of the enclosed station and actually interact with the planet. And for all the time the protagonist spends with the totally-not-antagonistic apparition created by the supposedly-antagonistic planet, he mostly ignores the apparition while fretting about why it's there. No real action takes place, just a lot of mental anguish similar to [Dune Messiah](https://vjacek.github.io/book-reviews/2022-8-24-dune-messiah/). Even when the protagonist attempts to interact with the 2 other humans on the station, they simply refuse to interact or share their own problems. Maybe this is likely reflective of reality, but wow is it boring to read about.

Much of the book's exposition is very slow and burdended with historical theories of what they planet is made up of, but which in-universe have already been refuted and are then neither fleshed-out nor useful to the narrative. So that's not very interesting either. The author then makes a pretty lame attempt to turning scientific observation of this weird planet into a type of cult or religion. That's a well-used trope that can be fairly effective, but it's implemented poorly in this case and fails to do much more than make the reader sick of reading about scientists who don't act very scientific.

And one more thing, if your book invents physical apparitions which interact with their environment and appear to be fully human, neutrinos are a rather poor choice for their substance.

After I wrote all of the above, I did remember why this book got 2 stars instead of just 1 - an entry to my Insults Hall of Fame:

> What are you - a scientist or a miserable coward?

Clearly, those are the only 2 options available!
