---
title: "Walden"
date: 2026-04-23
draft: false
---

Henry David Thoreau

&#9733; &#9733; &#9733; &#9733; &#9734;

_Walden_ is a obviously a great book, and I'm glad to have finally read it for myself. There has been much and more written about the book's greatness, and it's all well deserved. I won't cover much of that here.

What I will cover is something unexpected - the level of humor is wonderful:

> I have a great deal of company in my house; especially in the morning when nobody calls.

This is hilarous! His own thoughts are more interesting company than other people can provide!

Thoreau also says he let neighbors help put up the walls of his cabin, but only for their benefit - this is him making a joke, and it's a good one.

The whole chapter called _The Village_ is entirely about how great it is to be alone and lost in the woods, and it's hilarious.

Lastly, one for the Insults Hall of Fame - When talking about his "winter of lethargy" -

> Never knew if it was some hereditary disease or if it was from reading Chalmers' collection of English poetry.

[Boom roasted](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhkNYjljbMs)!

I still have a few critiques though. For all his observations of the woods and it's changing seasons, he never mentions spring peepers, a distinctly joyous and comforting phenomenon that heralds warmer weather. He hardly mentions summer, and autumn even less; _Walden_ feels unfinished. I simply disagree with Thoreau's insistence on the reader's responsibility of interpretation in many ways of a single writing. The greatest works teach as they take you through the story, _Walden_ lets you construct, or mis-construct, entirely your own ideas about what the author meant. I believe that is always the author's job, and unfortunately puts the work in too close relation to any other medium of abstract art.

Thoreau also got owls wrong. Their hoot is not dismal and mournful at all. They are the powerful and calm sentinels of the woods, keeping survey from above and assuring all who can hear them, fieldmice and squirrels excepted, that the night's darkness is a blanket of safety, stillness, and peace. For if you can hear an owl, you do not hear calamity.

The conclusion also does a lot of the philosophical heavy lifting; that should have been better woven into the observations.
